Sep 23, [2020](/blog/2020/)
# I'm now employed!
[After months of COVID-19 lockdowns](/blog/2019/covid-19/) and hosting the [resume](/resume/) page, finally I got a real job! My employer is an Asian securities company, and I will work as the Assistant Vice President in the cross-border and electronic trading department dealing with our institutional clients. This means that I'll get to work with real banking networks and computers! Although the nature of the job is focused more on equities, I'm happy I get the job because I can utilize both my financial knowledge from college and computer knowledge I have been *amassing* (lol). I'll start this new job on Oct 1, and may have much less time to learn C programming this year, as I will have to learn so many new thang.
## Work computers
One of the first thing I asked my future boss was what computers I will be using. He said the firm uses exclusively HP (not even HPE) computers. He also showed me the computers - HP workstation with HP peripherals (with 5-6 monitors), and a dedicated set of Bloomberg-branded terminal and keyboard. Damn it I hate these Horrible Products - I mean, I'm okay with the workstation, but they will have to threaten my life to force me to use HP laptop as my work laptop.
## Taking down [artnoi.com/resume](/resume/)
Hence, the resume page may be taken down, or the files password-protected, to show my devotion to the company. However, I think I will leave it just for now - because I am too lazy to edit `_header.html` (see also: [How I write this blog](/blog/howblog/)).
